# 16s-rRNA-sequncing-analysis-with-mothur
In this write up mothur workflow is discussed through 16s s rRNA sequencing analysis of lung microbiome of Cystic fibrosis phenotype.
Cystic Fibrosis is an autosomal recessive disease caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein. Cystic Fibrosis is mostly associated with lung infection and severe damages to the pancreas, liver, kidneys, and intestine. Acute increase in Pulmonary exacerbation which occur throughout the patients’ conditions in Cystic fibrosis are treated in part with oral, inhaled and intravenous antibiotics. Several studies were performed in identifying gut and lung microbiome in healthy and diseased condition. We have collected and compiled the gut and lung microbiome studies from human and other experimental animal from PubMed and developed a manually curated database named as GLMdb.Currently,the database includes 265 and 150 gut and lung microbiome published literature respectively.The database provides the knowledge of gut and lung microbiome studies performed separated for respiratory for respiratory and metabolic diseases. This database includes information on sample species (eg.human,monkey,rat),hypervariable region of 16S rRNA, links to the raw sequence data (Bioproject ID/ SRA ID from NCBI/ENA etc.) and disease associated with altered lung and/or gut microbiome. The database is freely available at http://bicresources.jcbose.ac.in/ssaha4/glmdb/index.php. From GLMdb we found that there are total 39 Lung microbiome studies available for Cystic Fibrosis. Among those only 4 studies of lung microbiome have sputum sample, V4 region amplified Paired end raw sequence layouts which are selected for 16s rRNA sequencing analysis further. Mothur (Version 1.42.1) was used to analyse the 16s rRNA sequencing data of the selected samples and further performed meta-analysis by systemically combining the previous studies.Although there was variation in patient age and sample collection methods,still we observed dysbiosis of lung microbiome profiling to the respiratory diseases. We have also observed the complex interplay in 10 different known pathogen of Cystic fibrosis in between Cystic fibrosis lung and healthy lung microbiome.we have also shown how those known pathogen altered in different antibiotic conditions and different Cystic fibrosis patients condition from 2 different antibiotic studies.
